Is he over there?
All
right, Dennis, you got your phone up?
>> No, I didn't. I don't.
>> Let's do it.
>> Thanks for reminding me.
>> Yeah, it's probably just my wife.
turning it off.
>> Eric, do you want
recording. It's recording.
>> Hello everyone. I'm
a labor attorney and I've been asked to
work with
regard to this hearing. Um,
this is an appropriate time for us to
start the appeal hearing and to present
evidence as you attorney Gale or Miss
Browser going to present evidence
regarding the matter.
Miss Grouse is right to decide whether
to have this hearing in public session
or executive session. I believe based on
our prior conversations, attorneys,
you'd like to have public session.
>> That's correct.
>> Terrific. Well, we'll continue in public
session. The recording is happening and
it will continue. Um, and feel free to
approach uh the table and address the
select as you wish.
Add one more chair. Not enough.
>> Okay. Good afternoon everybody. My name
is John Gail.
I'm an attorney in Hartford. Um I'm
representing Tess Grouse and
This afternoon with me is Rebecca Abrams
who's a an intern in our office.
Foolishly, Rebecca is considering going
to law school. And I see my table here,
everyone.
Um, in any event, she asked if she and
she's been assisting on this matter. So,
she asked if she comes.
Uh so I see you all have the packet that
I handed out and uh with your permission
I would just like to go through it. Um
I'm not sure I assume somebody here is
sort of the official clerk of the
meeting. Um and I would take my original
exhibits and give them to the clerk.
>> Okay.
>> Whoever that might be.
>> Administrator will serve as the clerk.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. That would be
>> that would be you. Okay. So we'll u Did
I give you the original package already?
You gave me uh five in green envelopes
and you gave me one set.
>> One set. Okay.
>> You need it back. You just say the word.
>> No, we killed a lot of trees. So, we're
good.
>> Okay. That's what you want entered into
record.
>> That's what I would like entered into
the record. There are exhibits A through
K. Everybody's received a copy of of all
of them.
By the way, before I get started, I
parked my car on the other side of this
building. And as I did, I saw I think
one of you pulled in and had an electric
car
and I said, "Wow."
Because I now own an electric car. So, I
have heightened
I have heightened attention to where
there are chargers. So, go, you know,
good for the town of Andover. Good for
you uh having the charger.
I assume more of these things are going
to be coming. Uh anyway, test graphs.
So, um I presented you with a a short
memorandum. I'm just going to go go
through those facts uh again and then
wrap up with my argument as to uh those
facts. Uh so the exhibit A that you have
are the uh minutes of your August 12th
regular meeting where there was a
proposal to hire Tess Grouse as the
community and senior center director. Uh
and that that proposal was passed
by by the board that evening. same time
the uh employment agreement uh was
approved in the 50 vote and it looks
like the next day uh on August 13th uh
Miss Grouse and Mr. Anderson correct
correct uh Mr. Anderson then signed the
employment agreement
and uh and you have the employment
agreement um as exhibit B.
Uh and this is what you know we'll call
contract
between the town and uh contest.
Uh and this employment agreement is
specific in that it has a term. It the
term commenced the day it was signed
August 13th, 2024. And and indicated
that it would continue until June 30th
of 2026. And that's very significant to
our our position here today.
On December 19th, um at her request, I
believe Tess had a performance review
done uh by Mr. Anderson and that
performance review uh is attached as
exhibit C.
You can see there the various comments
that were made. um the check off
she got a couple of excellents. She got
four two excellents, four goods and uh
and one satisfactory and then there were
five pages of comments um which seemed
reasonably auditory to me, but I leave
it to you to make your own your own
judgments on that.
On January 13th,
uh the board approved an extension of
the agreement for a period of three
months.
Now, I did indicate in my statement of
facts that
this does not seem to be authorized
anywhere. Uh, now clearly I I'm happy to
stand corrected on any statement of fact
that I make or statement of law that I
make, but as far as I could tell from
reviewing any of the town's handbook or
charter, policy handbook or charter, I
could not find where this is authorized
anywhere. Nonetheless,
the town took that action
and and we have those minutes. This is
given D.
uh and the town noted that this was a
probationary
uh probationary period.
Uh and again
upon my review of the town personnel
policy handbook and the town charter
there there is a a six-month
probationary period that is referenced
and it's referenced on page seven of
your your personnel policy which I've
attached as exhibit J.
But that probationary
um period seems to be specific to
employees at will.
And you also have um
in your personnel policy a definition of
employees at will.
And the the definition of employees at
will very specifically says
and this is page four of your personal
policy also in
exhibit J.
It says those employees
who
do not have an individualized
written employment contract
are considered employees of
well exhibit B
sure looks to the world like it is an
individualized written employment
contract. It's very specific to test
Krauss. It's in writing and it's an
employment contract uh employment
agreement. So um it's certainly our
position that um as an employee
Tess was not an employee at will and
therefore the provisions of the
probationary
period that are in the town policy
manual
um do not seem to apply they they seem
to apply only to employees uh at will.
And um you know that's page seven that's
in that's in exhibit J. And you know
that's where it tells you the first 180
days not 90. It says 180. I didn't find
90 anywhere but it says first 180 days
shall be an introductory period. Um
but it then says after successful
completion of the introductory period
employment with the town is at will.
Well this is not employment at will.
This is employment under a written
employment agreement, an individualized
written employment.
Um,
so that said though, the board did
extend all their probationary period. On
February 10th, Tess attended the next
regularly uh regularly scheduled board
meeting and uh she asked the question
that we have all just been discussing.
Okay, where's this probationary period
to be found? Uh
and
so I gave you the the minutes of that
meeting. They're attached exhibit E. Um,
suffice it to say, uh, at least from
Tessa's perspective, she no one ever
related to her where that language was
to be found. Um, and we've not otherwise
found it. Um, so then on April 14th at
regular board monthly meeting, uh, the
board set a date to further review the
agreement that it had with Miss Gross.
and that those minutes are set forth as
a F. Uh three days later on April 17th,
there was a special meeting. It was
called a contract and operational
review.
Uh so this was a contract and
operational review uh that was conducted
in executive session, employer employee
discussion if you will. Uh Miss Grouse
was present. She was questioned
and there was apparently quite a bit of
back and forth uh discussion
but
she was not advised that there was
anything
that was
a problem that that she was facing any
discipline. She wasn't told that she
could bring witnesses or that she needed
that she could defend herself.
Um, and I sum I summarize that by saying
in short she was not afforded what we
call due process rights. And I I'll talk
about that a little bit later on. Um,
and so you have those minutes as well.
And of course you were all there for
whatever
you would remember all of these things.
But we do have the we do have the
minutes. We have the written.
On April 24th, there was another special
meeting that was held. Um, and at this
meeting, there was then a motion made
apparently uh to terminate the uh
employment of test grant town and and
that motion was approved 3 to2. Uh, and
we have those minutes. Uh and so uh
subsequent to that action uh Miss Krauss
was effectively terminated from
employment uh at the town. On July 8th
uh having hired our law firm to
represent her, we sent a letter to the
town seeking to appeal that decision.
And that appeal uh is based on the on
the policy uh of the town. I I provided
it to you again in exhibit J. Exhibit J
has all the sections of the town
personnel policy that I thought were
were relevant here. Um, and so exhibit J
pages I have pages 18, 19, and 20 which
are pages of the
employee discipline.
And uh and on page 20 is where it
indicates that
uh any employee who uh wants to appeal
their discharge can appeal it to the
board of selectman. And so that's that's
my view anyway of what we're doing here
today that we've appealed
her discharge to the board of selectman
and this is that uh appeal hearing. Uh
it's interesting to note that
u this employee discipline section that
starts on page 18 very specifically
discusses
at will employees at will employees and
says this is this is what's applicable
to at employees and specifically exempts
anybody under a contract. Um
so
that's what we're doing.
So
having seen that that was the
the uh policy of the town that an appeal
was uh you were able to make an appeal.
Uh as an attorney out of an abundance of
caution
certainly
uh Miss Grouse should take advantage of
any administrative remedies that she has
before seeking to go further. We have a
lot of case law during male I'm sure is
very familiar with these kinds of
things. Um we have a lot of case law
that indicates you have an
administrative remedy you should take
advantage of that administrative. So
we're here to take advantage of that
administrative remedy and we're here to
ask you the board to select them uh to
reinstate test jobs to the job for which
she was hired. Now,
what's our basis for this? And this is,
you know, I really did a lot of thinking
about this um because this case
implicates
some really fundamental principles.
And the fundamental principles are
contracts.
You you really um
It's fascinating, but this goes right
back to the United States Constitution.
Written right into the United States
Constitution in section 10 article one.
It says that government shall not pass
any laws inhering contracts.
This is how important
contracts and contract law has been to
this country from its very beginning.
And the lawyers here will will know that
as first year law students we have five
courses that you take. One in criminal
law, one in civil procedure, one in
property,
one in courts which are personal harms
and the fifth two semester course is
contracts.
A real aside, anybody that remembers the
paper chase movie, some some of you may
The movie starts with the case of
Hawkins van McGee which was the very
first contracts case in my contracts
horn book and I think my professor must
have spent two we call it the case of
the hairy hand professor must have spent
two months on that case but contracts
very you know it's very basic it's basic
to American law
um
when we talk about employment
we really have three types of employment
for anybody. I mean, this is not just
the town, but this is true for anybody,
any any employer.
In Connecticut, the three types of
employment are, as we've discussed in
Connecticut,
employment under a labor contract.
So, this is the whole advent of labor
unions and collective bargaining and
coming as a group negotiating with the
contract. And the third contract you
have is the individual written
employment contract.
And it's that individual written
employment contract that we are dealing
with.
That's exhibit C. That's the contract
that Mr. Anderson signed with Miss
Grouse with the approval of the law.
And that contract comes with a lot of
rights. As I mentioned, contracts are
sacrosan under the United States
Constitution
and um
excuse me just a second
whistle here. Um
so because contracts are so important
u and because you're a government
um we have a whole body of case law
that's developed around how you
terminate
a written employment contract
And
it's very clear that a written
employment contract can only be
terminated by a government.
And and by the way, that contracts
clause, it's in the United States
Constitution. There's plenty of case law
that says that applies to states and
municipalities.
You no question this this applies to the
town of Amber.
So how do you terminate that? Well, you
terminate on the basis of something
known as either good cause or just
cause.
Causation got to be something.
It's not the case that a private
employer who can simply terminate
somebody at will or even the town can
terminate somebody at will for no reason
as long as it's not an illegal reason.
You have to always mention these things.
You tell employers terminate somebody if
you don't like the color of their
fingernails, but not if you don't like
the color of their skin. that wouldn't
be easy. Um, but when we're talking
about a written contract,
the only way you can terminate a written
contract is good cause or just cause.
And when you're going to terminate a
written contract for good cause or just
cause, you must provide
what I referred to earlier, due process.
These are fundamental
concepts
and due process as was banged into every
law's head again and again and again
means notice.
Notice of what is being charged and an
opportunity to be heard. And you can
imagine that those words notice and an
opportunity to be heard have been
expounded on, you know, thousands, if
not millions of times over the years.
What does that mean? A notice and what
does that mean? An opportunity to be
heard. But I think that there's general
agreement that notice means you're told
what the problem is. And the opportunity
to be heard means that you're given an
opportunity to rebut. You're given an
opportunity to present witnesses. You're
given an opportunity to to present your
side of the story.
That's fundamental when people say
you're entitled to due process.
So with respect to the contract, in
front of you and and the lady who's in
front of you, Chos.
Uh
I think there's a problem. I think
there's a problem because I don't think
that fundamental due process was
recognized, was given to Miss Grouse. Uh
and nowhere
uh do we find any cause,
nowhere do we find any specific charges
in orordination, failure to to to do the
job metrics that were set up that she
didn't meet. I mean, the only thing we
have is Mr. Anderson's
uh employment review. It's the only
thing I have and you may have more, but
the only thing I have is Mr. Anderson's
review, which seems reasonably low.
Um,
so
we're here
and we're saying, look,
you probably made a mistake.
Mistakes can be remedied.
That's why we have appeals.
This could be a pretty simple remedy.
You grant the appeal, you reinstate Miss
Grouse.
Obviously, there'd have to be some
payments made to her for the payments
that she missed up to this point in
time. We can certainly have a discussion
about those and discuss these things
with your attorney.
It certainly seems that this would be a
very efficient way of resolving this
matter.
And at least from what I've presented,
it seems to me that
there's
there's not a lot of ability to
contradict what I've said in terms of
the failure to give her due process and
the failure to point out any just cause.
Now, there's a secondary appeal issue
here. You know, lawyers, we like to have
multiple.
What do they say? You want to have
multiple multiple
Um,
the town policy also seems to say, and
this may not be what anybody meant, but
it's what's in writing. The employment
agreement says that termination
of Miss Gross shall be pursuant to
section 701
and 703.
It doesn't mention 702.
Mention 701, 703.
701 really talks about Mr. Anderson. It
talks about the town manager. It talks
about um to terminate the town manager,
you need an 80% vote. You need four out
of five
select persons to vote for that.
Well, you know, I didn't write the
contract.
Wrote the contract. That's what it says.
You may not have meant it, but I think
you kind of stuck with it. reasonable
interpretation of the contract is that
if you were going to terminate this
contract, again, I would maintain you
would have had to do so providing Miss
Krauss with notice of the charges
uh an opportunity to present evidence
and then you would have to demonstrate,
you would have to demonstrate, she
doesn't have, you would have to
demonstrate some good or just cause and
then you would have to have an 80% vote.
four out of five. Well, the record not
80% vote. It was a 3-2 vote. So,
our second appealable issue, if you
will, is that even if you don't buy the
whole due process and the whole material
certainly maintains hard, but
regardless,
you also don't have the 80% vote.
So again, um
we're here to say
it appears
that the town made a mistake
and mistakes can be remedied and this
may be a really opportune time to remedy
that mistake and and everybody move on.
I'm happy to take any questions,
but that's the thrust of the argument. I
think it's all kind of laid out for you
in our memo. Uh we have all the exhibits
that are referenced in
>> ter
is there anything else you'd like to
present
before the board convenes to discuss
what you presented?
No, thank you for that opportunity.
No, you have our case and thank you for
your
what's likely to happen
to executive session so that it can
deliberate
uh the issues before the select
considering legal advice that the
selection has received through a legal
letter to sent to the court previously.
Freedom information it's a proper
discussion for executive session. Um I'm
not sure how long that discussion will
be. You're welcome to wait. Um
but you need I will let you know as soon
as I have a decision if a decision is
made today select as to how to respond
to the appeal that you filed and
arguments you presented today. Um so
I'll leave that up to you. Happy to
happy to follow up when the board has
made a decision, assuming a decision
made today. If they haven't made a
decision today, if they need that, I'll
let you know that as well. But by the
same token, if you'd like to wait for a
while and see how long the discussion is
going to be before a decision is going
to be made or before we'll know whether
a decision made today, you're welcome
to. So, you're happy. I'm sure we're
going to hang around for a certain
period of time anyway. Um, when you call
out for sandwiches and pizza, we may
decide to do it. Um
uh let me give you my telephone number
if I may. Telephone 860
>> 416
text me or whatever that u
no decision today
meeting at another time or a decision
today app
or hanging around we'll come back.
>> Absolutely.
>> Because I take it if you come out of
executive session you will go back on
the record.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely.
>> Thank you.
So I would like to make a motion that
we enter executive session
for the purpose of discussion documents
that were presented to us by attorney
Gale. And I would like to invite
Tomerson
labor attorney.
>> Hi
Carol.
>> Hi Jeff.
>> Hi Scott.
>> Hi Move
into executive session here. Turn off
the camera.